bike courseThere was sound alright. Good morning. Everybody. Welcome to engine 151 do today basically as we was going to introduce everything about the chorus to you to jump into some cplusplus Basics talk about tights and variables in C plus plus and that'll be it. All right, we start off a semester really fast. This is after all the accelerated version of the introduction to computers and programming course, which is engine 101. This is 151 call took some sort of aAlgorithmic thinking test or something that said that you're you know skills at sinking computational your algorithmically are at 11 that this course would be you know suitable for you. It's not an honors version of the course. It's simply just an accelerated version and what that does is it allows us to cover all the material that would be covered in 101 in about two-thirds of the time that leaves us on extra. Third of the time to do really cool stuff. Right and I'll talk with that talk about that stuff more towards the end of the lecture today, It involves packing and stuff like that for not like breaking into computer networks more like making really cool stuff on your own and in team so we'll talk about that here. I forget I see and I remember I do and I understand so you come into class hear what I say, you're going forget everything. I say seriously like 5 years from now you're going to run everything. I said, maybe some of my jokes, but they're not very good. SoAnd whatever you might and then you know it you'll see what I do. Maybe that will imprint a little bit better. You remember more of those things or if you're actually in the auditory of the post a visual learner you can swap those two. We not verbs at the end but really in programming I do and I understand is always true. It's okay. I I rarely see you soon as they can come in and just listen to lecture and watch what I put up on the screen and then they just understand programming. All right, it's one of those things where you have to do. It can actually get it done like sports, right? You're not going to learn how to run if you just watch people run. Can you got to get out and got to run? So that's what we're going to spend the bulk of the sort of important part of the class on is doing things. So working on projects doing labs and then the the team packs and I talked about in just a little bit ago. Alright, so important topics and and show you that ifThings that were going to be working on but in order for you to fully understand programming got to go to lab you got to do the projects that work on your team that work your partner all sorts of stuff. Okay. So who am I I was born in Battle Creek, Michigan if you're from Michigan, it's about right here and Marshall, I grew up in Marshall. It's just break break. They're all right, so I went to all my schooling in Marshall Michigan at the tiny little town. Yeah, it's still a tiny little town. And then from there I went to the University of Michigan and I have stayed since I got three degrees music M bachelor's Master's PhD all them and computer engineering which is pretty close to computer programming their friends and I lived in all sorts of different dorms all over the place on campus even lived in Dexter for a little while and I took a brief stint to live. In South Bend, Indiana cuz my wife was working at Notre Dame, but that was just a big non-starter. So we came back here. Right? Actually I actually said that I never lived in my address is not officially there cuz we still had our house in Dexter. All right, so I never actually live there with my wife did for like an academic you or something until she got a job at U of M and now we're both Wolverine. That's our kids and it's the big happy wonderful family of Wolverine. So reason I say that is that if you have any questions being predominantly, I think almost exclusively first-year students here. If you have any questions about Michigan life in general, I can probably answer them. I'm a bit removed age-wise from that. I got my PhD in 2008, but I was in the school here for like 12 years. So, you know, they just imagine like you spend as much time in case through 12 as you did getting college degrees that that's what I did so I know I've done pretty much everything I've even been on a DSi and a greater and everything else. So I'm pretty much filled. All rolled up into where I currently am right now. Alright. So before I get started, I want to show you a really quick video from this project called code lot of you probably seen this as a website called code.org and it's intended to get people who are first thinking about programming in computer science involved in the the discipline and to sort of remove some of the mystery about what computer science is actually about so hopefully the sound work site. I heard a noise when I plug in my USB so hopefully yay. I think 19th century was about the Industrial Revolution about electricity about disrupting their Agricultural Society and making it more advanced the 20th century was about physics and Engineering do more things easier in our everyday life from refrigerators to washing machines. And the 21st century is definitely the digitally is the internet. Even if you want to become a racecar driver or play baseball or you know build a house and all of these things have been turned upside down my software. Is a robot consensus environment every single hour is lettuce bot and seeing 1.5 million plants and it's taking individual action on those we enable lettuce Growers to have higher yields in their field. I hope we make it cheaper by helping produce food in a more sustainable way and that wasn't previously possible without computer science and technology. Have really fun job where we build Polyvore which kind of combines all my favorite thing. So programming as well as these days are software product that you play with your phone. And so if you want to build something cool, you need to know programming, right? And there's so many things that you can do backwards in the cool thing that you want to build a figure out what that is a lot of time computer programming hard of that, right? It's really exciting right now. The technology that we're developing right now is going to be used by your doctor and you know in the next decade you when you come into the office and you're sick and the doctors. All right, you know spitting this cup and I will put it into this magic machine which is the sequencer and I can tell you what you have or what's wrong with you. We're looking for a new virus for example will downloaded database of all the viruses that are known and will search for Hino Arts sequence of Interest against a whole database of all viruses. So you still need somebody to analyze the data. Our software helps people save energy and thereby reduce their carbon emission to date we've saved over a terawatt-hours, which is the equivalent of about 1.1 million cars on the road. When your forecasting when there's so many different parameters that go into it would be impossible for humans to sit down and do all those calculations. We need a computer model in order to forecast. I read so far which scan images images images. I know that the work that we've done has impact of the life of people and I feel very strongly about it because there's a lot of social problems right now that could really use a technology in the world by you giving them the tools to be able to do better. That's something that we can do right now and it will sound like The merging of Art and technology is getting more and more significant now because computers and software such an integral part of our Lives day today people are realizing that it can be quite creative to take this medium of computers and create credible works of art. In Finding Nemo when crush and squirt and all the friends are flying to the east Australian current you're seeing images of water flowing by you're seeing the colors on the back of the turtle. You're seeing the size of the fish that all of those things are generated through math and computer programs that we write that we didn't give to the IRS and they take that to to create that final image and tweak it and make it look beautiful. The Crux of it is really bad invention about looking at the world and and being dissatisfied with things and questioning everything. I always felt like if I didn't learn how to program, you know, that the future would just be close to me. If you're in the coating profession, there's so many things that you can do and you can pretty much pick and choose the course you want to think that when you can start something in your college dorm room and we can have a set of people who haven't felt a big company before come together and build something. The billion people use is just crazy to think about right. It's really it's humbling and it's amazing that was available for that you put in the wall. Learn computer to show you all of the area is a computer science is all right where it's located what it helps but it contributes to computer science is pretty much in every aspect of our lives these days including like art and food and all that kind of stuff I've ever heard of IBM Watson before that super smart computer Thing 2 years ago. They took IBM Watson and put him in a patient cuz I'm anthropomorphizing and making it a person took it down to Austin, Texas for South by Southwest and it cooked food for people that cook food. It came up with recipes for people to eat. All right what you're like, why would you want a computer to tell me like what to eat? And the reason why is because the computer is able to use like machine learning deep learning? Boxer to stuff like that to pair foods and taste and flavors together that no human chef would ever pair together, right? So it would be like shrimp tacos with and Coco sauce or something. It's just like the weirdest flavors that you would ever expect to pair and the recipes that it came up with her and credible people really love that but unfortunately had some like really rare ingredients like no taro root or what I have to say. That's probably not even that rare ingredients like pink Malaysian sea salt or something as ingredient till like the recipes did Watson came up with work. Yes tasty but also kind of hard to make. So anyways the food cart down there at the South by Southwest had some of these recipes that you can try. Unfortunately. I didn't make it over to the car out there and make it there so many things and it's only going to get bigger. We're going to evolve you up to a nice erect human and then devolve you write down into a hunched-over human and a computer roughly in the same sort of posture as that original. The first one is that we want you to learn how to think like an engineer. I'm assuming that a lot of you want to get involved in some sort of computer science field, but that's not a requirement of this course by any means. In fact, we don't even presume that okay, we want you to think like an engineer an engineering 151 not computer science 151 not each 183. All right, so that's the first thing we also want you to learn about algorithms and how to design and Implement them. El grullense is going to talk about in a second are not just computer programs. They're actually just instructions that tell you how to do things and creating algorithms designing them and then implementing them in some sort of code is a very similar process to just to engineering design process in general. Right? So if you can learn how to make a program by designing it and then holding it up you can go and apply that same sort of process to other areas of engineering so it's really important to learn that skill in the reason why it's supposed to do it in a programming environment is well first off because Computer Sciences sort of permeating everything but also because it's an environment where if you messed things up bad things don't typically happen and you might think bad things happen cuz you get a bad grade or something on an assignment, but it's actually not that bad in the real-world context. Okay in the real world when bad things happen cars crash buildings fall down Bridges tip over all that kind of stuff. But if it's just Cold, it doesn't compile your code doesn't run. No one's going to die from that. Okay, people might die if software feels like when it's space shuttles launching but that's incredibly rare say software is is not I would say the most common engineering disaster that results in loss of life. Alright, it's more likely that it's some sort of mechanical failure than anything else right now. It's not to say that software hasn't done his fair share of harming people cuz it has your want to look up something look up the fair at 25 disaster. It was a radiation machine that was used for like treating easy to for treating cancer. It was for like Imaging and they completely messed up the design from one generation to the next they ended up like a radiating people in like giving them lots more cancer. So is a terrible terrible machine. Okay, and it was it was programmed into was the fault. So it's done bad things in the past, but it's I think probably the least damaging thing maybe siblings. Probably doesn't do it anyway, but those languages are almost secondary to the first two goals of the course. Can we pick some spots in Maryland? Because they're to Foundation languages in engineering C plus plus as the foundation language in eats, electrical engineering computer science because it's it's close enough to the to the bare metal like the computers that you have that you got to learn things about like how memory works and how what bits are in that kind of stuff but it's high enough away from the machine that you can actually start to abstracts and details away and you know, Make useful code on the other hand is more of an environment. It's used by non-engineers. I would say although he's people do use Matlab for doing certain things. But Matlab is more of a what's called mathematics laboratory pay it's more of a a computational environment where you plug in a bunch of data and then it took me no computer stuff with that data in an outcome results and plots and all that kind of stuff that life is a very powerful environment that what it it's supports all the different things that you would expect like selection interation functions. And if you've ever program before it support. It just does it in a different and easier to use way. So we're going to start on C plus plus I'm going to switch over to Matlab after about a month and a half or so. And in the end of the semester, like I said is inserted this mixed bag of stuff and we'll talk more about that. Later. You're also going to have fun. I hope all right, especially in this matter just got into a rocket ship in your blasting off into space. Okay, and then towards the middle of the semester. So we're going to start a taper off and we're going to be way up high in the sky and you want I want to just order the garage will climb. Okay, they cover the same material as a stat except they do it more slowly and they don't have time to do those additional topics at the end which I find to be very interesting. We expect that the more we expect the majority of the class has prior experience in programming and a knack for computational thinking that and or an act that's what that placement whatever none of really placing again thinking exam was intended to you know, Pull-A-Part. Okay, so if you've never program before You likely have a knack for computational thinking if you did well on that placement test okay test cuz it's not technically required. I suspect a lot of you. Like I said her considering computer science that you don't have to be. Okay. So just to get a feel for the class how many view a program before? Oh good Lord in heaven. Okay who hasn't program before? You can still do it. Okay, it's not going to be terrible. Alright, I thought one. 101 for 10 years and I've taught 101 for one year at 1:51 for 1 year 10 years 101 1-year 151. So I know what I'm doing. Okay, so you all can do this. It's just going to be for those two of you have a program before it's going to be real quick when we start off. But once we push through cplusplus and switched over to Matlab the mat material we covered in my opinion at the same Pace that engine 101. Just A C C plus plus stuff. They were going to fly through who has who is considering computer science or east of some and some Farm should have said who's considered a non eats major. Don't be shy that's fine. One of my best students whenever I eat. I don't know if he's here to Raj is in the arrow. I'll forgive him for that. He said he wants to get a minor in Mass and likewise. I get a minor in computer science, man. So even if you aren't doing computer science minor in it, it's through Allison a which is fine. Alright, the Allison a CS major is actually I think bigger now than the Cs engineering major. Our classes are huge. Our department is the biggest department on campus in the college by far now and if you include our friends over in Ellison a c s in Michigan is I think now bigger than the entire College of Engineering. All right, which is good. All right, we still have demand for computer science jobs all over the place and I'm not lying the first the highest paid people on the College of Engineering or computer science major. Alright, they get $95,000 a year on average with a bachelor's degree and a master's the 105 the average right? If you go to like the middle of May So now you're probably going to get a little bit less, but he should go to the West Coast to the east coast you're going to get more because they are just for standard of living for the most part. All right. So if you're in it just for the money it's a good place to be but that you shouldn't be okay. If I was in it for the money, I wouldn't be staying up here in front of you. I'll be out working and I'll Google or something. Alright, so you really what you need to do is decide if it makes you happy. Okay, that's ultimately where she going life but I suspected computer science will make you happy. It's a really great field is really exciting. It's always changing. You always have to be on your toes and learning new things. So if you like to explore stuff learn new things and never be bored at your job, this is it alright computer science is where it's at. So it doesn't mean that the other disciplines in engineering or not like that in General Science Tech engineering and math is always an evolving area when I'm not mad but in general are always, you know, I'm coming up with really new and interest. Problems problems to solve and they're solving them they do problems and just at the virtuous circle like that. Okay, so that's how we're different hear some tips for Success come to lecture and lab regularly lecture is not required lab is required lecture. If you feel the need to not attend it is after all 9 in the morning, but my oldest son just started kindergarten this year. So I have to get up at 7:30 and take him in by 8. Anyways, so like it's not early to me, but I feel free all the nine early. So if you don't want to attend lecture, you can watch it online that camera back there with the green ring glowing means it is now recording us. So if I don't know if I can see you I know can see me that's for sure I camera it is being recorded and it's going to be accessible via canvas. Okay, you should all be on canvas anybody not get the canvas announcement. I never to announcements cool. So after class and takes like an hour or so for it to get post processed and whatever and then it gets posted up there automatically so you can watch this fine. Chris you to come to lecture. It's always fun being here cuz you can make fun of me if I mess up cuz I do get help when you need it. There's myself and then we have for staff members Suraj, Anish Halle and Why do I always blank on her name? She's rgsi. She's amazing Dafna. That's her name fras and music. Person aren't you a computer science and she does music in particular. She does digital music and so she's really creative in that regard. Okay, a lot of experience with music in some form or another. Yeah it look around. There's this weird Connection in my opinion between engineer's and music or stem people in music or something like it. I have died playing piano for 8 years trombone for like 5 8 years 8 years or something and now I think so. I think there's something about like the way that like music wires your brain that helps you to think or something. I don't know. There's probably some studies that have done this anybody in the marching band. If you go around like that who's in the marching band and any other classes can be like marching band know. This class is for the Nerds. Okay, so it's weird like it has anybody in banstead like how many of you were engineers and it's like half the band it's weird. How is that? How does it happen? I don't know but it's a decade since I've been teaching I like who's in ban in 101. It was really surprising you say who's in band was like 15-20 people would raise their hand. So anyways, I got sidetracked on that music thing. It happens every once in awhile. Anyways, we're going to do a little bit of that in tears. Well the purpose of this whole discussion was is that get help when you need it and make use of office hours. So if you're having any problems with in particular the Project's CSN office hours and we can help you out. You also need to sleep and eat regularly. I think in order of importance that goes like you have to drink water and coffee is not a substitute even though I tried it make it that way. So you have to drink fluids then you have to eat or no, then you have to sleep in then you have to eat. Okay, you can go the least amount of time without water before you die. And then it's sleep and then it's like it I think and sleeping like I think the record is only like 5 days before the person didn't die but they pass out like your body actually forces you to sleep. So don't try that experiment. Okay, maybe over this don't try that experiment. Okay. I don't want to encourage that behavior a patient and persistent most of the most of your program before in fact about a hundred students in the class of 98 % of you have program before so you probably know what it means to be patient and persistent with code. All right, especially when there's bugs in it and there's always bugs in it pretty much unless you're running a program that like adds two numbers together. Okay, which I'm going to show that until you in a second. It's like the easiest program in the world of the program that prints out hello world right to the screen. But anytime you move Beyond just like the first or second day programs your codes going to be broken and it's it's forever going to be broken. All right, just have to get used to that right? That's fine. That's that's the way it works software is too complex to be written such that it has no box. All right, even like the other engineer is out there in the field will say, you know, our car is function perfectly. There's always bugs in cars buildings Bridges. They fall over they can all tip over cars have airbags that blow up in your face and then companies go out of business. All right, because of it like it is everywhere just because the things we make these days are too complex and there's no way that we can have things that are there for you even though you know Folks at Nasa their space shuttle blow up. I mean sad right but you just have to work through it and be patient and persistent learn from your mistakes know that you're going to fail you are going to fail at something right now. Is this small subset of you and he will you get farther along and you'll eventually level out with other people that are as good as you and then you'll fail. All right, so you have to get used to it or even Einstein failed, right? So Bill Gates success is a lousy teacher is one of his famous quotes and I probably will have it at the start of class. You're not going to learn from your success or failure. So just be aware and just move on. Real simple. What's an algorithm before you think about even writing down notes, but you probably won't for this. I'll be slides are also post on canvas. So what I recommend for you to do before class. If you do want to make notes that are directly related to the slides either going to digital copy and annotate. It was something like a tablet saying that supports and I don't even have it turned on right now or print it out and write on it or write on paper and say, you know slide whatever this all right, but for the most part I'm taking notes in this class. I think it's been covered for you on the slides. So I'd rather that you be in get to know it depends if you're the kind of learner. There are some Learners who it helps for them to write what they see on the board. That's fine. Okay, but sometimes the stuff that I put up there goes by too fast in the system possible. She may have to revisit it in the videos and something very simple instructions for accomplishing tasks. A recipe for doing something that something has to do. I have a really lame description with a recipe for making cookies. All right, here is the list of ingredients that you need consider those to be your variables. Here's the steps. You have to go through for combining those variables together and then here is the final list of instructions for cooking ingredients. The task is making cookies in a mechanism as you and maybe your mixer and some forks and balls or whatever this course for practical reasons as it has to finish in a finite amount of time. Hey, you can't have a program that runs forever. Hold an infinite Loop. Alright, sometimes infinite Loops are created by Design. All right to do things like for example calculate pi I think pies an infinite number, but we haven't really proved it. I don't know. I'm not math person. So who knows but you just talking through here in calculating pi and it seems like Right where you can find that guy in the UK. Just like got on the radio one day and started reciting digits of pi and they were scientist like following along and like, oh my God. Yes, he's correct and he did it for hours and hours and hours until eventually they just gave up and say, you know what, you would look green skin or less never heard of that guy. I saw it on TV once it was crazy. Like there's like aliens are in his head. Like there's no way how But how like there's some sort of artificial intelligence in that guy's head. There's there's no way I like. I don't even understand. Yes. Maybe maybe he's Advanced disabilities. I the only thing that I saw is it. He was he was just on the radio saying like 526-987-3299 just saying these things and there's like this ruin scientist with printouts in there. Just following long as he says they're just like What and then hours later he still gone and I just give up I think that's the story going to stick to it. Even if it's not. Alright, so you find my stories do that every once in awhile. Alright, so example the famous Alcatraz you probably all seeing all these things and use them thousands if not tens of thousands of times in your life and Google you probably use hundred thousand times on a million times in your life and not even known it right the Google search algorithm where they're searching capabilities in general or just built into things now and you don't even know that they're there right even something as simple as bringing up like Maps right to figure out where you're going. They are using Google's searching power when I was coming into work today. I got off at 23 and I was on Barton Drive and it was backed up. I can see the red lines on Barton Drive and I was like, so I turn onto a side street and it searched and rerouted and Found Me A New Path in the save me 5 minutes coming in. 5 and it's not a big deal, but it is when you want to get into working and not sit in your car. All right, so all that stuff happening in the background Amazon is another one. They don't necessarily have a specific algorithm that you can point to like the pagerank algorithm for Google but they do have algorithms that basically tell you this is all the stuff that you should buy for. These are the things that people bought together. Maybe not for a good reason but it is a good reason for Amazon cuz it makes him a ton of money. There have been moments in time even recently that boxes from Amazon Prime have shown up on a daily basis at my house all the boxes. All right, because they're like you need to buy this I have money. Okay. Alright, so it's like it just keeps going and going like this whole area of stuff to buy that you didn't even know about watering fountains for your pets and things you like them. They are good for Amazon me. I think Bezos is the richest man in the world. Just a few seconds then who beat him out again? Bill Gates, okay, that's not fair. How can Bill Gates still be the richest person in the world? What was the stock? when it's curly but Whole Foods enemies decided, you know decrease the prices there. That's that was the whole foods thing right because it's called Whole Foods and it's also whole paycheck. I don't know. Alright, there's also algorithms built into iTunes for encoding and decoding MP3s. Although I don't even know if iTunes uses MP3 anymore. It's probably some proprietary AAC or some form at its washless originally MP3s were out there because we needed the compressor music to make it small because our storage was limited. All right, we didn't have a lot of storage the stuff in music, but now stored is like, oh, I got a 4 terabyte chip like this, you know, I actually don't but they like that's where we're going right and increases roughly every 2 to 3 years and doubles in size and you know, and so we can buy at the checkout lane at Kroger a 64 gigabyte stamp right in that can hold. Whatever I did it blows my mind giving that when I was in college. The iPod was created like the thing that had like the spinning disc all right inside of it and so back then it was in 06 gig iPod was and now it's 60. That's how big my movie is that I just been coded. You know, I'm like super surround 3D Atmos Dolby, whatever. Can exercise for you do know this is for those of you learn programming for this going to be super simple. So it's really not intended for me to test your ability to do anything. What I really want you to do is get to know each other. All right. So during exercise what I want you to do is introduce yourself to someone say hi. Say my name so, you know Bill, my name is Jill nice to meet you and then I'll come back in a few minutes and we'll talk about the answer. There are some things to consider there and keep those in the back your mind because they do impact in a sense the way that this question is addressed. Okay? I'm going to play some music, but I can't this thing doesn't I got to get a new case? I will cases easy to take off. There we go. Shawn Mendes Where is music? So I can play. Okay. So here is what I do for multiple choice question in the past when I had a room with 400 or whatever students in 101 I'd ask for these hand signal things but our room small enough where I can just say, you know, what's the answer and then you can say the letter and then if it's just Mass like I know you got it wrong. Usually. Most people don't know why. Yep. Yeah. can actually Ground Zero faucet Precision adults go to be right. Yes. So as you can tell by the length of the answer it's a lot more complex than you thought. Okay. So 98% of you kind of understand that the 2% that haven't programmed before I might be home early or what why is that if this is a number and it truly can hold stuff in and assume that it's a positive number divided by 2, and eventually, you know what actually eventually it won't reach Nero. It just keeps getting smaller and smaller, but that's why the word infinitesimal exist right infinitesimally small but never actually 0 so it goes like that and it's like zero so is this wasn't going to be executed by a mechanism that had a finite amount of memory which all mechanisms to my knowledge do okay, it could technically run forever and us know what is not an algorithm is the appropriate answer. However, we could theoretically About this that if we did have a machine that had infinite Computing capabilities, it would in fact run forever. Now you could argue that that's completely impossible because there is an finite number of elements in the universe and everything going. Sorry finite number of particles in the universe in every single one of those particles is used for computation. It was still have a finite amount of memory. All right, Infinity the rather big thing. Alright, so the only way that you can even imagine such a thing as if you had an infinite universe and that the entire universe was your computer. It's just not happening. All right, because it does not happening till like 1 hour into philosophy stuff. So it's all right. So that's part of the issue here. It's all right, depending upon how many numbers you can represent the things you're going to run for a long time or short time or somewhere in the middle. And the answer is to can we really represent all possible number to the computer? This is no we can't you can't have a specific set of values that represent infinity. In fact, I think Matlab has that right? There is a an Infinity value in Matlab, but it's not Obviously Infinity, okay. Alright. So here's another question. I want you to go through some other things to ponder over here in the right again, not too hard of a challenge for those of you that have programmed before so because of that this is still a meet new people exercise. So you met some folks me other folks. All right, so that's what you can do during this exercise. Can't get it out of sight. okay on the count of three ABC or d 1 2 3 Right. Okay. Now this is based on some assumptions the first one obviously you can read it and beer positive. What if they weren't what would that do? Africa yeah, the short answer is lots of different that will not lots but several different things. Yeah, there's all sorts of stuff that could happen here depending upon what you picked for A&B assuming that they're not positive or 0 or whatever. Okay. So what's what's funny is that like I said, I tawt 101 for a decade. And when I first Hot 101, I throw up this question throw up. It doesn't sound right place this question nicely if I didn't have this red box, OK and a decade ago or so if I ask who programmed in my class is like three people. Okay for 225 is like three people would program before then over the past decade her high school and started getting computer science and programming into the curriculum. And now we have an entire class 151 Square 98% of the classes program before All right, and I suspect that 2% of you that haven't have still done things that are like programming so you're probably not as far off as you think. So anyways, no one thought about this stuff in this box. Everyone would already come to the lecture assuming that they was positive. All right. No one ever questions that algorithm instead of what I say is negative or zero the same thing goes with this one. They would always just assume that A and B were positive. All right, and they would always assume that it would get through it. All right, so I never had to talk about these things and then as time went on in 101 soon started raising their hands and say what about this and what about that and things like the word integer in Double started showing up and what about representing all the bits for the things and I'm going to wait a second. Okay. So now it's put up these things and it helped and then I taught 151 And it got worse cuz 151 is a while privately students good program before they should have a knack for this stuff. And then we really started getting into discussions that were like what it was this and it was negative Infinity in all these kind of things and I was like, okay wait a second, but it's just trying to go back a couple of steps assuming that six eventually executes. The answer obviously is he no be here, but what can happen such that it wouldn't Able to be with one and you get one for me every time exact same values for being a where be started out greater than a Sobe is to 8 as one every time you just like 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 and then that's just all you do. Okay, you can control the algorithm. So to speak. Hey would be the right answer. True that's eating that there's another like thank you for being in 151 type of a question. Right? No one would ever think about what if you divided by zero, what's it going to do to the computer? Right? Everybody's looks like well you can't divide by zero. So yeah, but if you if you divide by zero here if you put in like a z what is 0 + B is equal to -5 / 0 and it's on a bit depending upon the computer. It's going to give you a divided by zero error in the program's going to crash. All right, every once in awhile doesn't happen anymore Windows blue screen with a divide by zero error. Okay, and so like Windows couldn't even handle it, right? Craft the operating system. You know what your your Counter-Strike game is gone or whatever. So like your power points are destroyed. So I think Microsoft has fixed that I haven't seen a blue screen yet in Windows 10, and I've been using it for quite a while Windows Barton. call