Okay. Lucy come out, okay. Where are we with the homework? Cuz it been uploaded you. It has thanks. I took a look at it looked okay, but The more people looking at the better. Okay, let's get started. This is H 370. Possible. Can you hear me in the back? Yes. If you can't hear me raise your hand. Fat joke, okay. So what are we doing in this thing? 370 well this is What will the I hope what time do the hood of a computer how does it actually work from a logical standpoint? What are the components these logical components? And therefore, how does the software execute? So it's so completes the story, you know about things like C plus plus programming and so on maybe you've gone through the algorithms class. So I'm not for sure what everybody's background is, but this is the part that connects that to physical things. and how we do that when something I think the any computer scientist computer engineer should know split into four. Groups of lectures one is a discussion of the instruction set architecture. Sometimes abbreviated to ISA. off usually that is the instructions that the computer executes using its logic. It's sort of the barebones computer. So whatever gets run on the computer and has the end up. Being translated to that level and you'll do some of that in this class. the process of microarchitecture is how the Electrical components to put together to implement the instruction set architecture and of course, we need a memory system to go along with that. That's POP3 and finally just looking at it as as one thing as tying it all together. That's a system architect you so that's the broad brush outlines. Here are the sea. Guilty parties teaching, that's me out there then so I'll be doing the next two weeks and then Harry's going to teach for a week or so and then worry too and then well cycle around if you want to update. I won't read all these out, but we've got a lot of discussion section. So we have a lot of inch of us. instructional assistants real school instructors for More about them in a minute. Cool my so well, I've been working in this area for years. I mean designing computers that is Then I worked on other computers when I was a grad student some of the very first actually I'm computers. Nobody kid much about computers and I've been here for a long while that's a lot of the classes that you've suffered under. And actually I've started some of them like this one except it was cool 365 and it had a computer you can see in that picture that black thing. That's the that's something that's not even comprable to the computer in your cell phone. But that's what we told on at the time that guy that I identified is actually Andrew Farah. Who's he graduated here few years ago. He's the chief engineer of the Chevy volts. There are a lot of things you can a spot to. I'm not saying that him doing his classmate a job. But most of them of going on to be by presidents of Intel Qualcomm. Actually, the guy that runs quote comes running back gradually. And I run it sent to the research center that works with the alarm company and if you want to know more, I've got a website. Class resources. I may actually end up adding some more but the main thing is to course homepage. Most everything's going to come through there like assignments projects and so on. There's a link for administrative request. If you have an emergency, or you're ill or something, you will find a link to that to a form at that you could fill out song. The discussions going to be on Piazza, which is a forum. And this the URL for it, so we're going to use it for general questions on lectures projects homeworks. So it's keep it to that when I'm going to talk about current political Affairs or good bars to go to in Ann Arbor or something do that on another page. and will hand out so let me just say one more thing about PS or among those that long list of Instructional assistants that always be one of them. Looking at the Piazza Forum most the time goes to go to take classes and things but you sure what that means. Is that sort of a roster so they don't it's not one guy doing it for 24/7, but it means that there should be a pretty good turn around to your questions. and in such an issue with any of you, please let me know but I think we've got that covered so that you now what you cannot do is put Snippets of your homework or projects and Yeah, I wrote this piece of code. It doesn't work. Can you fix it for two reasons one when I'm going to fix it for you were going to ask general questions to your violating the code actually by sharing you your stuff with other people. So please don't do that. Ask general questions the same questions you got an option that set of questions for each thing homework project and chilling and we'd like to get those awesome for everybody. Homework to go in through gradescope and there's the link to do that and the details of how to sign up to that will be on the top of the homework, which I don't get off of the couch. And during the course of the semester when things get a little bit more intense that you may need to form a queue for office hours and saw him say some more about that and this week you that you can get on at this link. The next week or two that shouldn't be a problem. If there are other issues that really pressing an emergency or something then you can send an email to The stuff which is that email down at the bottom. Okay that were few of the things that the class will be recorded. I think this is the one that's going to be recorded. So you'll be able to great. I said that and of course the whole thing screws up. so it's just it's just lost the connection. interesting Eubacteria so you can revisit past lectures if you and brought him slower or faster or whatever. The things that maybe you didn't quite get the first time around. So you've done the software sequence or at least part of it? I think I'm suing everybody he can program in C plus plus if something equivalent to that. We're actually going to use see which is like a subset of C. Plus plus it's an early version It's the plus plus. The hardware view of machines is starts at 274 logic elements and then goes to this class. So don't worry. If you haven't done 270 will spend some lectures going over the essentials that you need to understand for that. Come to Lexus. I'm going to ask questions. I hope you'll get to ask questions so we can I can get a better feeling for things that you don't understand. So I can tailor things to that go to the discussion section that's critical there that you'll get information on how to do particularly the projects. And the first discussions will cover some of the Oddities and the Odyssey is the right word of C. Don't show up in C plus plus streamlined. And in fact, we will give you some Snippets of code. So you don't have to get tripped up the things I sent you to the projects that you have to do. Best going to start on Friday of this week. So I'm holding office as when I teach outfit. I have an office way up in the top corner of the 4th floor and base the building. Off to the Tuesday class and then Wednesday afternoons. And next I'll try and hold it in the is a little Lounge area or up there this got bit more space to my office, but I don't know if we're going to do it a little bit. So I have to find Space foot even an office out. These are the office hours of Harry Andrew to the student office hours just instructors You'll find on the web site. Hey, we've got a calendar of when you this shows you when your project to do Francis. This one that shows you when your homework to do Exedra Exedra for the for the for the the class and you can pop down and look at week and then breaks up now. So the yep, the Orange is discussion sections. The purple is these classes and the blue is office hours that the guys to do the discussions going to hold. in addition to Miri to inheritance of with good coverage so you should be able to get questions on Piazza and people to talk to in office apps Let me know if there's any hitches with that so we can smooth things out. What are we going to do? Well, basically we go for big projects. What do you mean by I guess? So if you look at this, the first one is a simulator at simulation of the little processor that we going to learn about how old he thinks fit together that's hiring for the running exhaust School L C to K. Then we got to figure out how to put programs together. That's dumb with a Linker. That's the second project. You'll build a link of your build an assembly simulator and then a pipeline simulation. I'll say more about that. I see implementation and finally the memory hierarchy which I've labeled cash simulation. So my experience in this class, is that the first they actually get easier the further you go down the list. And in terms of timing and what have you so it's sort of front-loaded, but that also means you need to get when we put the project up there in the next day or two to get going. It's just you got to read through it understand. It's a good time for questions. And get started. Give me the nurses towards the end of the semester when you've got to do it won't be quite as intense, but there is a final exam and the half of the grade. The dates that I got there October 30th, that is pretty much Frozen Friday the December 14th for the final I think is that might change but right now let's assume that's correct and I will look you if it is. Ladies listen seats down the front here. But you're too bashful to come to come up here. Okay. Nobody wants to sit in the front row. Is it something I said? Okay, finally this homework attorney 10% of the final grade for some people say let's blow up the homework and you're old enough to make your own decisions what I would say, so it's so you have a chance to get some feedback. Programming sinus who you've already seen there four of them. The first one will be posted by Wednesday. We're going to be using C is I pointed out. It doesn't have some of the nice features and I'm weak because of what do you think that nice of Sleepless book The I always want more clumsy cplusplus. So smooth that out. It also has a lot more things like class isn't showing the sea does not have So what we're trying to do the challenge in this class is to understand computer organization and by that, I mean the organization of The Logical things the memories the registers the function units to do add and multiply and what have you and the way there in two connected and the way instructions control of these things and Marshall them so that they actually execute your program correctly. now your assignments going to be automatically graded and they'll be a lot more detail in the hand out some and we can discuss that together, but and certainly in the in the It's the eye of discussions. That's really where you get the mechanics of some of these things. But the thing I want to point out there is you need an account on a cane machine. So if you're not in the engineering College in the engineering College, you can apply for one. This is a short process. It's not you don't have to show your birth certificate and you'll get a And then you'll get a log in the reason why is because the last software runs on that degrading software. Old assignments that do one minute before midnight whatever day we say. So in the case of the of the projects. You can you can have up to three late days because we recognize it sometimes things come up that you didn't anticipate. So in that regard, I would say don't use them up early on in the semester. Cuz you never know what's around the corner. Something you cannot avoid sinus require access to came work stations that already said that so you can not a problem. That's fine. But in order to run it for grading you're going to have to upload it onto we got to get it onto a cake machine. So your project today is to make sure you have a chain account. I've said that three times but it's worth repeating if there are some that don't make sense the Instruct his around to help me fight. The first discussion section will be some information slides and what-have-you about running C programs. And I hope that that's not an obstacle course. That's not the main thing that we're trying to teaching this class. Goes without saying you going to do your own whip. There's no groups in this class. No groups for homework. No groups of the project. and we have Great, but program actually will check your program against all the things that have gone in the past. I mean all of them to see if it looks anything like it you can defeat it like anything but you would have to work much harder than actually doing the homework. So just as a cost-effective solution actually do the homework that may be the simplest solution. Otherwise, we're going to tell you to the owner Council, which I don't want to do. Possible cuz it's a big hassle. It's a big hassle for you because your grades gets suspended from 6 to 9 months and who knows what else? and there's always a few in a big class like this, you know, some people are going to ignore what I said, but please do not do that. homeworks the six which will just cover the lecture material good practice problems for exams. No late days. No late days, because when I drop your lowest score, so what are you going to score 5 to 6? So sexually that's your late day. Certainly discuss them with people ask questions on Piazza. And during office hours and someone that is exactly what we're looking for, but not specific things like I wrote this piece of code, and it doesn't work. Something a little bit more. You know, how do you how would one go about doing this? For instance? More generic questions first homework will be out this week next few days actually, so the class is curved. Technically that's the way this is Ron is 1/3 as the divisions third everything else. And then it goes to Classic disclaimer. cost of insano prediction of the future what about books? I'm a put some more information for the moment. We're not requiring that you have a book in this class. But I recommend that you do. This is a good book. It's been around in many incarnations for 20 years or so, actually and updated its a good book. I don't get any proceeds from it. I circled the thing this various versions that deal with different instruction set architecture as the one we want is the one Does old show abortion from a company called zybooks which Outpost? So I books will give you the book and access to that website, which has the booking in as a web page so you can leave screw it and I don't know they bundle them together and they say it's a good deal. But that's what they told me that they saw another story. This book this online. That's not bad. It's got some of the concepts like pipeline in the memory structures and so forth by El Baron Del Rey weenie, and it's electronic so you can just Just Google their names you should be able to get access to it. And this actually if you got a concern, you know, if you just want to do some self teaching about things there's tons of resources online about the material that we cover here is very fundamental to Oak computer curricular. Post some reading assignments. Like I said, the text is off Ocean Isle. Let me go in a little bit more detail about the breakdown. So we got this election, which is just sort of like the intro to everything and then on Thursday, I will start cooking about instruction set architecture sets with different examples. And when I say assembly that's refers to the assembly language, which the language that runs on a computer the computer a particular everyone has it song and we will learn about that and then understand how it fits together with something like see you on Paisano what happened to implement the thing that implements this instruction set architecture The Logical components how they fit together. That's the processor in Plantation. That's actually the biggest chunk of it. And then we'll look at memory structures and how they fit together with the processor. And if we got time left over we might cover some futuristic things and hot topics. Willow, so two of the elections will be taking up with review one before the Midtown and one at the end of the semester before the final there also be extra office hours during those times, too. Well, that's a good place for me to pores are any questions so far. Yes. on some architecture Yeah, no sense that. We're pushing the whole thing together, but that's as far as it goes. Okay. So this is the stack of have computers fit together and how that made they start off with solid state physical devices to do those. Renaee Maybe. so the Silicon is at favorite semiconductor today and what that means it's a semiconductor cuz it's not quite a conductor or not quite an insulator, but you can make it one of the other by putting pure sokudo p And you can do it dynamically so that it switches so you can build lunch accounts and it's very tiny you can put it on. This way you took about Silicon Valley and what all these other allusions to sylic actually, if you look at a computer chip today, it's got half of the periodic table in it. So kind of weird. She might write about them in the newspaper. They needed not just for Batteries, but also for the chips like Cobalt for the interconnection, so so you want to make some money invest in Cobalt mining. Because it's probably too late and if I know about it's probably too late. So you can put these things together and make simple rugged case and that's the way we come in. the operate according to Boolean algebra Boolean logic and that they couldn't um could be put together to form things. Like Dakota's multiplexes arithmetic units in to connect and so on that's what that sort of an important part of this process so we don't start until halfway down that chart. And that the operation of a computer is it takes instruction for memory breaks it into small simple logical steps and that's governed by a clock. Which runs very fast, which is why computers get things done quickly. But one thing about it is the we need to understand is that those steps a different for every instruction? So we have to build a little machine put a sequential machine or a finite State machine. If you are if you could have Siri background which Tells the thing how to step through these little micro steps if you like to implement in this truck. So will I will I hope get a very good understanding of that and that completes this on to the last two lines, which is the machine instructions themselves in the architecture of organization outfits again, so you might want to think look at something you call a laptop or a cell phone or something and see what kind of chip is got in it. because it's got It's got computers in it actually much more powerful than things that went in the past even this. Fritz that's actually especially this. So look at you got a Galaxy S9 Google it see what's in it and it will say something like how many cores does it have? Cory's just the little processor that will learn about except they usually have more than one. Maybe I'll just for 6 or whatever. And then the clock speed that's the rate of which those little steps get get executed. Everything's broken down into these steps and you see figures like to .83 gigahertz or something. They usually in the low gigahertz Optix. So let's Little Steps can get done. You can do a lot of living steps in a billion and that's only one second. So that's a measure of the performance not a very good one because she might be doing useless stuff will understand that bit more than you could say. Oh, but I got four of them cuz I got to fly 2.8 x 4 and I've got the performance of the computer which is extremely crude up a band on what you might expect for for a chip. And the other thing you might find out about is that it's 32-bit machine or a 600 64-bit machine that refers to the number of bits that the machine operates on in normal operation. 32 is we moving from 32 to 64. So the processes in it if you have an iPhone and 64-bit processes, which is basically eight bytes 32 is full by so So if you look at an older version of that Snapdragon chip the Qualcomm sell least it's used and the older one that the 8001 least. You can see the numbers go up as it gets more recent. It's a 32-bit machine most of the time you can tell it to work on less, but you wanted to do more than you have to do extra instructions. And that lost bullet 28-nanometer process technology, but Anatomy to is not something we need to worry about in great detail in this class, but it's just for general education Anatomy. There is a billionth of a meter meet us about 3 ft 39 in actually, so it's small. The wavelengths of visible light and green light is about and it's a measure of the finest the smallest things that you can put on that semiconductor. So like the unit of stuff there are multiples of that 28, so it's tiny which means you can put lots of things on it. And today we're closer to 14 and 10 them. Maybe your cell phone. If you go in there so few years old is made from so what what does it mean when I help with loans have an idea? So let's look at some Concepts that have been critical in the Computing space 8 great ideas. The first one is Moore's law. It's more of a observation in an idea observation about something in the physical world and you probably read about it countless times in various newspaper articles and sofa with is a picture of one of the founders of Intel by the way, and you can see on the the y-axis that it's a it's goes up exponentially. So if I plot an exponential owner on a graph as I hope, you know, it's going to be a straight line. You could see that green line and that tells you what happened. From about 1970 about 50 years ago another Woods up until will 2010 and that lines going on with little bit in recent years won't mention what I'm going with plotting up. There is the blue things are Intel chips from the very first microprocessor that they made the Ford 4000 and fullback in 1970 the couple of thousand the moment. And then 30 years later. We're up to a billion actually 10 billion. If you go right up to the top and you could see that successive generations of that computer that 80008 the 80 80 86 and so forth and then read of the Motorola equivalent to Motorola quit making microprocessor around about 2,000 so you don't see too many red lines at the top lid. And Moore's law says that the number of trans transistors that you can put on a chip doubles roughly every two years. That's an exponential but the important thing is which they are most popular articles completely Miss which is the chief thing is it does that at the same cost? So do I have to do in Princeville? It's to sit wait for two years and I can take my old computer really implemented cuz I've done through 70 in just the same thing. In this new Step, which gives me twice a density. I don't some more speed and less power It's Magic. We've been riding that Bonanza for a couple of generations. So it's made everything possible. You're here because of this. Old computers that I used to work on the classes would have three people in it. Most of them asleep including me and Now we got more students in the class of sleep not forget that so that's progress. So you go to what is it? We're talking about 10 million fold increase in the complexity of the computers that you can put on a chip. That you can pay for with five bucks of fixed amount of money. Which is remarkable. I mean the cost of you if you want to go out and buy a car and say it should be. Get a 110 million since the cost that it was in 1970. You wouldn't get too much attention from anybody but that's essentially what's happened in this technology. And it's stressful and sayings people still drive 1970 cuz I mean much different than 4 Wheels. What cars have been almost no innovation in the automobile industry discovered. They can put computers in them. So it's really more of this. Here's the sad story. Is this this but as a slowing down if you think about if you cut things in coffee every 2 years you can get to the point where you're looking at an atom and you caught that enough you can but no electronics, so it's going to end. Right. Now if you look at my chart at the bottom, you can see that where the yellow arrow is is where the leading companies are shown until Samsung and tsmc and they are roundabouts 7 nanometers now. If you look at the numbers the roughly speaking you go if motor plates number by .7 and you get the next one on the right 4.7 squared is about. Is about .5 in other was the area shrinks by a factor of 2. So you teach step on those things supposed to be 2 years apart, but not anymore. Look at the blue look at Intel. I mean, there's a gap in Samsung from tents that have to come up with a half note in 87. They claim is going to be out in 290 notice the in the future. Everybody claims are going to be on track, but that's rubbish. And the caught the biggest problem is the cost. Because most looks broken down things are going to cost more and there's no need to have these high-end chips. There's a lot of things that don't need them like your car your info system in all these things many many of them don't need a state of the arch angel process Direction sing. Any more than you need the fastest engine in your car, but you can get one if you pay for it. And that's the story here really? And in fact, the return on the investment is really the show stuff because now the manufacturing of the fabric of the Fabs cold the factories that produce these devices are becoming more more expenses that I've got two to four billion there. I was really close to 10 now. The Machinery in there's extremely if you want things to be this small you have to pay a lot of money. There is no manufacturing processes that require anything like this level of expense. That means that the company's of got to make it back and at some point then I'm going to do this the next note up to on this truck. So that's an interesting development based on this idea of Denard Skyland. I work the later this too much but you since we're doing a high-level view, but that the basis of Moore's Law is that you can scale transistors of by that I mean shrink them. But the pound density stays constant. So the thing doesn't catch fire basically. That's a good thing that's broken down. So now if we want these advanced technology knows we often have to deal with much more energy being expended. There are ways around that but it's a challenge and it didn't used to be you could just sit tight and wait for the next step. So that's what went out of about 10 whatever years ago that that broke down. So now we're going to post Moore's laws people like to say. So the conclusion and she can put them on a chip, but you've got a cooler and you see various complicated mechanisms to do that. If you're somebody likes these Graphics processing units. Picture graphics fan and you want you know, you play games me what really good graphics those things burn a lot of energy have big chips upon a lot of energy and they may have to be cool. Actively either with a fan or with some sort of liquid across them. So the next idea where is abstraction in that something you I hope of London program. It's something we do all the time Francis. If you're going to write a program to do something to a date or I didn't you bring it in. So there's an input step and then you'd made take the square root of it or something or look it up in the database and then you output the result. So you got three basic steps and then you break those down into smaller steps. Eventually. You can write the code that will do this. Well underneath the code this even smaller steps to micro architecture like a layer like an onion really if you want to think about that. his a diagram of how you might think about it, you know, you could have your self-driving car or you're doing some analysis of of the genetic DNA and so forth for you controlling a spaceship or you're more likely looking at Facebook and giving them all your personal data so they can blackmail you when you run for political office and then or you could be Doing a Google Search. Now, what does that mean? Will you run a program, right? So somebody wrote a program. So that's the next when you're doing Facebook of people that are not familiar with computers. Don't think of it. I don't write programs. And type in some in an insect that translates into a program the program is created by your program. And then that's translated which was so I can get an idea what this is, but we won't go into this in-depth this compiled a concept. And that spits out machine language, please bitch string of bits. Does the computer only recognizes Facebook a Google search. It recognizes a machine code in a human readable form. So whistle right down at the bare bones of the computer in this class. And ultimately you get something displayed hopefully. So you have a let's move on in that list. The next thing is. Make the common case fast. So it is a great idea. It's sort of an obvious engineering idea. I would say whenever you're building something or designing something creating something you want to work on the thing. That's most important. What is it do most you don't spend all your time figuring out how to make the car go fast in reverse? Because it doesn't do that very often just needs to be added to the functionality needs to be there. But you work on this going forward. Same thing with a computer. You can look at the thing. Maybe do some experiments to figure out what things you need to work on to make the overall performance time or energy. What have you met cost? the best so His focus on the things that happen a lot which means you can ignore the things that don't happen a lot. That brings as to how we can make things faster so that 4th bullet I put there is performance by parallel lines by parallelism. We mean doing things at the same time you take it to us. Can you split it up into a number of things that you can do symbol taneously off to the other you get this thing done much quicker. Think about your Google search you look and you look up something like him. I don't traffic light you want to know about traffic lights cuz you just got a ticket for running a red Sun. When should see if there's a loophole you can get out of this so you can you Google traffic lights. That doesn't just get run on one computer in the data warehouse. It goes too many thousands. and I do got a slab of information and I will go look for traffic lights in that still haven't then they report back and you get screen full of links to pages that tell you about traffic lights. So play employee parallelism in a gigantic fashion. To get things done so that they can get there. I think they want a response in the start of a second otherwise odds are that you'll click on something else. You you won't read that at. Is an example of a data warehouse, but just of a single Computing box produced by Nvidia for gaming types who want supergraphics. This thing has we decided call was a processing. This thing has nearly 4,000 different parts of the screen that don't need to be connected that can be done at the same time. So it is a great opportunity for parallelism applications fit. Well with that does And then something will touch on will not touch him. But we like to look at quite a bit in this class performance via pipelining. What is pipeline what it's a computer term, you know about really in a different guys. Think about look at that graphic at the bottom think about building and a car assembly line. So at least station of that cuss somebody does some other robot know something puts a seed in. Fixes something in the engine puts the wheels on but it's broken up into equal time steps. And those steps maybe 5 minutes or less? What that means is if I stayed at the end of that assembly line, it looks like they making a car every 5 minutes. In fact that particular, have taken a day to get pulled away through this thing off of down mature what it is. So you can take a big chunk of time. And split into equal time subdivisions and I can start processing my instruction in that immediately off the woods. I can follow it with another just like the assembly line. Maybe it would have been better for the could have assembly line to thin that be confused with sembly programming and so on so it's pipeline. The Bucket Brigade that you sometimes see what people are trying to put out a file at site So they don't go running to pump fill up a bucket in the run over to the house is on fire dump the bucket or they do is they form a chain and you can pass the buckets between each other. So in the time it takes for you to just change hands you can get a bucket out the other rent. So it looks like this is really fast stream of water coming out. If you take that to the Limit, it's a pipeline. It's liquid flowing through a tube and accept the stations now or like a molecule thick or something. So that's where the term comes from. If you could paint molecules of of oil, let's say when they went in the Transcontinental pipeline at 1 in they may take days to get all the way through but at the end the stuff is gushing out. So that gets us to performance by prediction will touch on that someone in this class, but that's covers a whole host of things like speculative execution. You actually cute things cuz she thinks they're going to happen, but they don't maybe you want to execute things that you that you got evidence will happen very frequently. If you're wrong, you're going to have to roll back. There's a couple more problems with that have recently been discovered in that is that it makes the hardware vulnerable to intrusion. You may have heard. recently newspapers about that his at his Al cartoon on that doing the weather for Scotch. We predict a lot of things. Actually we try and predict some people try and predict the stock market. Some people try and predict the weather the weather seems to do better than the stock market. All those kinds of hedge fund managers to tell you that got some magic formula. I think you're going back room your throat seeing throwing darts at a board or something and then we get down to the Lost item, but the hierarchy of memories the next tonight. So when your computer you have your laptop you have a slow memory, which may be a disk. If you got a really old computer work, maybe an SSD that thing is slow, but it's got a lot of capacity and put videos on it songs on it and even put your homework on and but runs much much slower than the process of the Senate work on these things. So there's a big gap. What you need to do is put several layers of different speed memory between those two ends. The point is if you look at this is a little graphic tells us a little something about this. We don't really want to do it this way. Go back to a very slow thing that runs at milliseconds for a thing that's got billions of steps a second.