Mr. Speaker the president's cabinet.How are you?Members of Congress. I have the high privilege and it has things honor of presenting to you the president of the United States.sister speakerMr. Vice president members of Congress first lady of the United States and my fellow Americans less than one year has passed since I first started at this podium in this Majestic chamber to speak on behalf of the American people into address their concerns their hopes and their dreams. Our new administration had already taken very Swift action. And you tired of optimism was already sweeping across Charles and each day since we have gone forward with a Clear Vision and a righteous mission. to make America great again for all American Go to the last year. We have made incredible progress and achieved extraordinary success. We are face challenges. We expected and others we could never have imagined and the floods and fires and storms. But through it all we have seen the beauty of America's soul and the steel in America's spine. Each test has Forge New American Heroes to remind us who we are and show us what we can be. We saw the volunteers of the Cajun Navy racing to the rescue with their fishing boats to save people in the aftermath of the totally devastating hurricane. We saw strange you shielding strangers from a hail of gunfire on the Las Vegas Strip. We heard Tales of Americans like Coast Guard petty officer Ashley leopard who is here tonight in the gallery with Melania. Ashley was aboard one of the first helicopters on the scene in Houston during to Hurricane Harvey. To help save lives actually we all thank you. Thank you very much. We heard about Americans like firefighter David. He's here with us. Also David face down walls of flame to rescue almost 60 California summer camp threatened by those devastating wildfires. Is everyone still recovering in Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands? Everywhere we are we we love you, and we always will pull through together always. Thank you to David Andy of California. Thank you very much. David. Great job. This chamber very personally with us tonight is one of the toughest people ever to serve in this house months later. I think they like you stay. We're incredibly grateful for the heroic efforts of the Capitol police officers and the lives of many others in this room. and the aftermath CS in the aftermath of the terrible shooting we came together public representatives of the people. But it is not enough to come together only in times of tragedy tonight. I call upon all of us to set aside our differences, We need to deliver for the people. This is really the key. These are the people we were elected to serve. over the last year the world has seen what we always knew that no people on Earth are so Fearless ordering for determined As Americans in there is a mountain we climb if there is a frontier which process so let's begin tonight by recognizing that the state of our Union is strong because our people are strong. And together we are building a safe strong and proud American. Since the election we have created 2.4 million new jobs in flirting. including 200,000 new jobs in manufacturing After years and years, we are finally seeing Rising wages. Unemployment claims a 45-year low. It's something I'm very proud of African American unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded. And Hispanic American unemployment has also reached the lowest levels in history. Small business confidence is at an all-time high. The stock market is smash one record after another gaming $8 and more in this short. Of time the great news. The great news for America 401K retirement pension and college savings accounts have gone through the roof and I promised the American people from this Podium 11 months ago. We enacted the biggest tax cuts in American history. Our massive tax cuts provide tremendous relief for the middle class and small business to lower tax rates for hard-working Americans. We nearly doubled the standard deduction for everyone. Now the first $24,000 are in for a married couple is completely tax-free. We also doubled the child tax credit. The typical family of four making $75,000 will see their tax bill reduced by $2,000 flashing their tax bill in half. This will be the last time ever file under the old and very broken system and millions of Americans will have more starting next month a lot more. We eliminated and especially cruel text and fell mostly on America making less than a year simply because they couldn't afford government ordered health plans. We repeal Obamacare. We slashed the business tax rate from 35% all the way down to 21% So American companies can compete and win against anyone else anywhere in the world. Priest changes alone are estimated to increase average family income by more than $4,000 a lot of money. Small businesses have also received a massive tax cut and can now deduct 20% of their business income Sandy keplinger of South manufacturing a small beautiful Business in Ohio. They just finished the best year in their 20 year history. Because of tax reform they are handing outrageous hiring an additional 14 people and expanding into the building next door. What are Styles employees Corey Adams is also with us tonight? Cory is an All-American worker. He supported himself through High School lost his job during the 2008 recession and was later hired by step how to become a welder like many hard-working Americans Corey plans to invest his tax cut raise into his new home and his two daughters education, Corey, please stand And is a great welder. I was told that by the man that owns that company that's doing so well, so congratulations Corey. Since we passed tax cuts roughly 3 million workers have already gotten tax cut bonuses many of them thousands and thousands of dollars for work and it's getting more every month every week. Apple has just announced it plans to invest a total of 350 billion dollars in America and hire another 20,000 workers. And just a little while ago ExxonMobil announced a 50 billion dollar investment in the United States just a little while. In fact is our new American mom. There has never been a better time to start living tonight no matter where you come from. This is your time. If you work hard if you believe in yourself, if you believe in tomorrow, and you can dream anything, you can be anything and together we can absolutely anything. Tonight I want to talk about what kind of future we're going to have and what kind of a Nation we're going to be all of us together. As one team in one American family can do anything. We all share the same hole the Same Heart the same Destiny the same Great American flag. Together we are rediscovering the American way in America. We know that Faith and family not government and bureaucracy for the center of American Life the motto. and we celebrate our police or military and our amazing Veterans as he Here tonight is Preston sharp a 12 year old boy from Redding California who noticed that veterans Graves were not marked with flags on Veterans Day. He decided we're all by himself to change that and started a movement that has now placed 40,000 flags at the grave of our great Heroes Preston a job. Well done. Young Patriots like Frost and teach all of us about our civic duty As Americans and I met passed in a little while ago, and he is something very special that I can tell a great future. Thank you very much for all you've done Preston. Thank you very much. Preston's reverence for those who have served our nation reminds us of why we salute our flag why we put our hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance and why we proudly stand for the national anthem. Americans and they deserve a government that shows them the same love and loyalty in return for the last year. We have sought to restore the bonds of trust between our citizens and their government. Working with the Senate we are appointing judges who will interpret the Constitution including a great new Supreme Court Justice and more Circuit Court judges than any new Administration in the history of our country. We are totally defending our 2nd Amendment and have taken historic action to protect religious liberty. Including giving our veterans in their health care options. Last year Congress also passed and I signed the landmark VA accountability Act. Simpsons passage my Administration has already removed more than 1,500. GA employee hiring talented people. properly taken care of which has been Accountability and respect and that's why we are giving to our wonderful Heroes our veterans. Thank you. Cabinet secretary with the authority to reward good workers and to remove federal employees who undermine the public trust or fail the American people. We have eliminated more regulations in our first year Administration in the history of our country. We have in the war. We are now of energy to the world. Government mandates great beautiful photo workers we can get Motor City revving its engines again. Many car companies building at expanding plants in the United States from Mexico to Michigan Toyota and Mazda long time coming back. Very soon. We'll be opening up our country. This is all news Americans are totally unaccustomed to hear so many years companies in jobs were only the leaving but now they are roaring back of America. That's what I want to do. Exciting progress is happening every single day. The speed access to breakthrough cures and affordable generic drugs last year the FDA approved more new and medical devices than ever before in our country's history. We also believe that patients with terminal conditions terminal illness should have access to experimental treatment immediately could potentially save their lives want to give them a chance. It's time for wonderful incredible Americans the right. the price of prescription drugs far less than what we pay in the United States and is very very unfair. That is why I've directed my Administration to make fixing the Injustice of high drug prices one of my top priorities for the year. And prices will come down substantially. What? America has also finally turning the page on Decades of unfair trade deals that sacrificed our prosperity and shipped away. Our company's our job and our wealth. Our nation has lost its wealth, but we getting it back so fast, the era of economic is totally over from now on we expect trading relationships to be fair and very importantly reciprocal. We will work to fix bad trade deals and negotiate new ones and they'll be good ones, but they'll be fair and we will protect American workers and American intellectual property through strong enforcement of our trade rules. As we we build our Industries our crumbling infrastructure. We built 10 years just to get a minor permit approved for the buildings of a simple Road. I'm asking both parties to Reliable and that our economy needs and our people deserve. For the new infrastructure investment that our country so desperately needs. Every Federal dollar should be leveraged by partnering with state and local governments and where appropriate to permanently fix the infrastructure deficit and we can do it. Also streamline the permitting and approval process and perhaps even one together. We can reclaim our great building heritage. We will build evening New Roads highways Railways and waterways all across our land and we will do it with American Heart American hand and American Grit. We want every American to know the Dignity of A Hard Day's Work We want every child to be safe in their home at night. And we want every citizen to be proud of this land that we all love so much. We can lift our citizens from welfare-to-work from dependence to Independence and from poverty to prosperity. As tax, let's invest in Workforce Development and let's invest in job training which we need so badly. Let's open great vocational schools. How do I report Working Families by supporting Paid Family Leave? Has America regains its strike opportunity must be on reforming or prisons to help former inmates who have served their time get a second chance at life. Struggling communities especially immigrant communities will also be helped by immigration policies that focus on the best interest of American workers an American families for decades open borders have allowed drugs and gangs to pour into our most vulnerable communities of low-wage workers to compete for jobs and wages against the poorest America's most tragically they have caused the loss of many innocent lives here tonight are two fathers and two mothers Evelyn Rodriguez Freddy Cuevas Elizabeth Alvarado and Robert mickens are two teenage daughters Kayla Cuevas and niece. Jamaicans with close friends on Long Island